this is what will happen with Instagram
Facebook and Tech talk whether you like
it or not when Snapchat hit the market
it was a great success
so successful that Instagram started to
copy some of their features and it made
Instagram even more popular Snapchat
still today is a success but a lot of
people have their features and Instagram
has grown into a large corporation now
so much that it's said that it's
estimated to be worth over a hundred
billion dollars according to earthweb
now of course Instagram's you know owned
by Facebook but still that's a large
chunk of Facebook's market cap
eventually Tick Tock came out and people
started to do the same with them they
started copy tick tock's features just
look at YouTube shorts it's similar to
tick tock according to statusa YouTube
shorts has over 30 billion with the B
monthly views that's a lot of views do
you see a pattern here everyone is
copying each other have you ever heard
of be real it's a social network that
notifies other users when to take a
picture the whole purpose of it is so
people can see how your day really is
instead of you optimizing that perfect
picture and painting a story of how your
life looks when that's not really
reality and eventually guess what others
will copy them too you may frown upon
that but it's business Google does it
Facebook does it Heck if Apple likes
something someone else is doing what do
you think they're going to do they're
gonna copy it and they're going to try
to make it better if something is
working for your competitors and you
aren't doing it you are going to lose
market share and business
here's what I want you to do with your
company when someone is out innovating
you first I want you to look at what
they're doing what's causing their
growth copy it you can figure out what's
working for them by using tools like
uber suggests there's also similar web
out there as well and it tells you hey
here's what your competitor is doing
here's where they're getting all their
traffic here's what's working here's
what's not and you can also survey your
audience and figure out what they like
about your competition you can use tools
like SurveyMonkey to perform this and
it'll tell you hey this is overall
feedback some people give you random
stuff some people give you great
feedback but when you survey not 10 but
30 40 50 60 people even 100 you'll start
noticing patterns and look for the
patterns and that's what you should
focus on first
second I want you to hire better Talent
not saying that your team isn't great
but you can always have better Talent go
on LinkedIn and see who works for some
of your competitors who are they using
that's outshining you right look at the
competitors that are growing fast and
you have those amazing features or
products that you don't have they must
have some amazing talent you just gotta
go find them so go on LinkedIn look at
their employees look at what business
units that they're in charge of the
products or the services that you're
trying to copy look to see their work
history if they have continually gone
promotions and they stay at companies
for a while those are good people if all
that lines up and their cultural fit why
not try to steal them away and hire them
the best way to do that is to hit them
up on LinkedIn and ask them if they know
anyone else who is like them as you're
open for a similar role there's a good
chance that they'll say hey I'm
interested or they'll refer someone when
you hit someone up directly and you say
hey do you want a job doesn't work as
well at the same time look for other
Talent that's similar to them that maybe
isn't even at a competition
third start experimenting copying your
competition is one thing but if you
really want to win you have to one-up
them
the one way to beat them is to start
experimenting there's no guarantee that
something works the way you want and
sometimes when you think something won't
work out in many cases it does that's
why you want to run at least one
experiment a month and ideally one a
week over time you'll learn how to
create a better product a service and
even win over your competition and when
you're running these experiments
don't get demotivated from the failures
just keep in mind the more you fail
eventually you'll go down a path that
leads you down the right way and helps
you win
now I know with this strategy you
probably don't like hearing that hey if
your competition is doing something
you're not doing you got to start
learning how to copy execute faster
one-up them by making whatever you
copied better than them but it's the
reality if you say hey I'm not
interested in copying my competitors
products or features like how Google may
try your Apple or Facebook may try you
think Apple's cloud storage was new
Dropbox was doing an amazing job but
Apple came out they got iCloud started
eating into their market cap and when I
say copy it doesn't mean it has to be
pixel for Pixel copycat of what they're
doing it's idea it's a strategy you need
to figure out how it can tie into your
business how it can fit with your
customers and how you need to mold that
product or service or strategy or
feature to fit your audience and that
may not look identical to your
competition that's what I mean by copy
if you need help beating your
competition if you're constantly getting
crushed by them check out my Ad Agency
NP digital where we help companies win
because that's what we want want to do
for you if you have any questions leave
a comment below I'm here to help thank
you for your time I hope you enjoyed
this video and if you did share it tell
the people about it and subscribe